#Melody Ruark#
##Step 3 Essay Questions 1-4##

__Please limit each answer to no more than 200 words total (Total limit of 800 words for all 4 questions). Answers should reflect your personality, creativity, and passion!__

•	*Why are you interested in programming? What have you done to expose yourself to programming so far?*
A simple task to scrub data for a genetic counselor who managed patients with positive genetic cancer markers blossomed into a larger project, driving my interest in programming.  I was fascinated how programming supported healthcare goals.  I served as a contact for patients referred to the genetic counseling program, and, in preparation for their initial appointment, I collected their medical histories, clarified questions, imported their records into an Access database, and tracked their care plan requirements.  Suddenly, what I had perceived as a sterilized spreadsheet became a personalized care plan coded with follow-up care frequencies for patients and providers.  My curiosity flourished with increasing exposure to the database and working through requests to query data.    
At weekly meetings the genetic counselor demonstrated how she drafted the database, and coached me to generate various queries.  We regularly reviewed my results, discussed errors, and talked about future reports.  Her passion and my curiosity about programming intensified and soon I was generating ad hoc reports, which culminated in the program’s first detailed annual report.  My simple task to scrub data allowed me to observe how patient experiences intersect with technology, and how programming supports diverse patient populations to achieve healthcare goals.  

•	*What are your professional goals for the next 2 years, the next 5 years?*

  * When my favorite professor told us told us to “get our hands in the data” to successfully complete a project, I wanted to get it underneath my fingernails too.  The repetitive manual work I perform in my role as an executive assistant tunnels me towards software development as a solution to my problems. My long term plan is to dig towards proficiency so that I can return to healthcare administration and develop impactful solutions to standardize and automate workflows. Specifically, I want to support healthcare’s ongoing transition to standardize and automate manual workflows.  
  
  * For nearly fourteen years I have served various support roles in healthcare administration, both in non-profit and state health systems, where the chasm between maintaining physical paper trails collides with electronic..  For instance, for every file that is electronically updated, I print a hard copy for my executive to review and eventually file into a cabinet.  These inefficiencies flood the chasm, gush down to patient care, increase risk for errors at every system level, and escalate cost.  My dream in programming is to transform modern systems in an empathic way so that patients, clinicians, and staff may focus on wellness. 
* *3. Tell us about a time you made a mistake that you learned a lot from. If you encountered the situation again, what would you do differently?*

  * I believed the lie that I did not have the personality, aptitude, and gender to achieve my dreams.  It is a mistake chock-full of consequences that sprout progressive lessons.  Initially, the lie spoke through influential loved ones who deflected my questions and dissuaded my passions with backhanded compliments.  Their collective wisdom intended to protect and uplift my spirits, instead deflated them.  I grew weary of the incessant lie so I moved away from the chorus.  I alarmingly discovered how naturally I sang the chorus myself.  Determined to stop the behavior, I changed my song.  
One effective strategy led me to quietly walk along forest trails listening for nature’s song.  These meditative moments celebrated successful milestones, processed through negative thought patterns, and dusted off neglected hobbies.  Friendly strategy games, art, crafts, and programming projects are a few interests that introduced me to a partner and friends who also harmonized with this tune.  
Perceptions of this industry lead me to believe that I may encounter this struggle again.  Strong emotional boundaries to focus on achievable goals while working toward proficiency in software development will aid me.  I am accountable to myself and my supporters to progress in my personal and professional development.   
* *4. Have you taught yourself anything before? Describe what you learned and how you approached it.*

  * Work projects often indulge my programming interest when I’m tasked to organize programs and process paperwork.  One such project I developed was an Access database to manage hundreds of patient records for a telemedicine program I supported.  I reviewed countless tutorials, watched online demonstrations and replicated examples to guide my process.  Within a month, I applied the principles I gleaned and built a system that managed complex medical legal records.  

  * As a personal project I wrote a version of the game Mastermind in BASIC, using an old book for inspiration.  I replicated the code, read through a book about BASIC, and watched online tutorials my partner and I found.  I replicated the code but did not initially obtain desired results.  One effective strategy in my self-learning was consulting my partner who has years of programming experience for support.  Together we reviewed the code and he explained what each line accomplished.  We identified several bugs to work through.  I discovered how valuable collaboration is in addition to self-directed learning.
